Hello and
welcome back to digital forensic concepts.
In this course we're talking about
keywords and draft searches.
In this module, module three, we're
going to discuss how we use our searches,
some examples of when we would
want to use a graph search.
Our regular expression would be for
an IP address,
a phone number to find you or else.
We're also going to take a look
at the graph options and
the great recursive search research
directories, recursive lee.
This is an example of a correct expression
to find an IP address and
we take a look at it.
We can see we have our square
brackets with our zero through 9 and
because it's correct.
We need the escape character before
the curly bracket because that would be
considered an operator or
a special character.
And then we have one or
3, one comma three.
And then again we have our
ski are curly brackets.
And we have our escape and we have
a dot and then we have zero through 9.
Again we have an escape and we have one or
3 have our dot 0 to 9 curly brackets
dot 1,3 square brackets.
Zero through nine, and
then again matching one or three times.
So what this is saying is
we're going to look for
the digits zero through nine,
matching one or three times.
We're looking for dot and
then we're looking for
the digits again zero through nine,
matching one or three times and a dot.
Zero through nine, matching one or
three times dot and then zero through 9.
Imagine one or
3 times the file were searching and
this would be called I can think
I have config dot txt now for
the group phone number.
Again we're using reps, so
we have to use the escape character
before the bracket to have it
operated a special character.
And in our square brackets we
have again zero through 9.
We have a three matching three times 0-9,
matching three times followed
by a space a dash or dot.
And then we have our special character
question mark escaped one or
more times 0- nine.
We have our three whatever brackets
escaped to operate as special characters.
The curly brackets, space, dash or dot and
then there are enclosed square brackets.
And then we have our escape
question mark again 0 to 9.
Matching four times when our curly
brackets escaped to operate as a function.
And the file we're looking at right here
is phone numbers underscore dot txt and
we have our URL.
And this is Igra extended group so
we have great minus E.
We have our www, we have or.
The logical or which is not escaped
because in regret we don't escape
the special character unless you want the
graph to interpret it as a literal pipe.
That we have our HTTP HTTPS with or
in between the pipe.
Biological or then we have
an escape in front of the thought
because we want to find a literal
dot com in the file we're
looking at here is Ivan
underscore n t dot txt.
So we can see we have to escape the
special characters to have them work as
operators with breath.
But in egress the special
characters workers, operators.
Unless there is preceded
by the escape character.
Then we're going to work with
our additional operators and
remember the -i for case, insensitive
minus n to show the line numbers.
The -C which we're going to
see lines before and after.
And in this case we
have the number four so
I'm going to see four lines before and
after our hit and then we have the URL.
Where your expression,
we just talked about in the same Ivan
underscore dot txt file searching it now.
A recursive search would be
grip minus R for recursive.
We're searching for
the term logins in our logs and
now we have another recursive
search with grip minus R.
For recursive search, and
in this one we're searching for
IP addresses and
a file called IP underscore txt I'm sorry.
This is a directory minus R indicate.
We're looking at a directory
called iP underscore txt.
So we're going to be crucial
research that entire directory
which can contain multiple files.
And we'll see that in our
demonstration and their demonstration,
we're going to use the Windows
10 Lennox terminal app.
And we're going to look for
IP addresses, phone numbers, you or
else we're going to do group searches and
searches.
We're going to search your coercively
the sample files we're going to use or
a file called if configured up text iP
tests text, phone numbers underscore txt.
And the directories are going to look in
our rehearsal search are going to be logs,
which is actually the folder containing
the windows of that locks and
a folder named IP underscore txt.
So let's get started with our
demonstration and this walkthrough.
We're going to test some
of our grip expressions.
The first grip expression we're
going to use is to find an IP
address in the file
called if config dot txt.
And we can see this is the expression
that we talked about in our PowerPoint
presentation.
And we see we're using grip and
we can see searching for
the numbers zero through 9,
occurring 1- three times.
And we're doing that again 0 to 9,
1, 2, 3 times.
0 to 91 or three times.
And then again 0 to 9 occurring between
occurring from once or three times.
So this isn't arranges either one time or
three times.
And let's see what we get for results,
as you can see, it's returning
the results of IP addresses.
The next great expression we're
going to use is going to be for
a US phone number and
we're still using grip.
So you have to escape the special
characters and we're looking for
a US phone number.
So we're looking for the digits zero
through nine, occurring three times.
Zero through nine, occurring three times.
And in this expression, I want to point
out this is followed by an escaped bracket
and then a singular bracket because
an area code could be in a bracket.
And in this breast set
of brackets right here,
we have a space which is just a space,
a dash or dot.
And none of these characters need to be
escaped because this is grip if it were
eager grip,
we would have to escape these characters.
In order for them to find literal dashes,
literal spaces or literal dots.
So let's test our expression,
and as we can see,
this does return phone
numbers in different formats.
We can see we have one here that does have
the parentheses around the area code.
A space and
then a dash separated phone number.
We have a phone number separated by
all dashes, one separated by spaces,
one separated by dots and
one with no separation at all.
It's just all crunched together and
the escaped question mark.
Character means zero more
times the next expression
we're going to test,
it's going to be a URL.
Are searching for a URL and we're
going to use extended grip this time.
And as we can see we have grip minus E for
extended grip,
we do not have to escape our bracket.
We're using the logical or with no escape
character, no escape character before it.
So looking for www Http or http or https.
And we do have to escape the dot because
we're looking for a literal dot com.
And we're searching in the file
Ivan underscore nt dot txt
which is a red ripper report
of the Ivan anti user account.
And we can see we do get several hits for
the https and
the dot coms throughout the file.
And we can see we have an email
address down here with a dot com which
is Ivan zero democracy at gmail.com.
We can also see some Microsoft com and
we don't see too much
more in the center user.
But now let's add in some operators with
this regular expression to get a little
more context to what we're looking at.
Okay, let's go back to our expression
when we ran the expression
this time we ran it with the -i,
which is case insensitive the minus n.
Because I want to see the line numbers
where it's finding these hits and
I want to see some context.
I want to see four lines before and after.
So I used the minus C space for
two c, four lines before and
four lines after each hit.
And we use the same regular
expression we did before.
So now let's take a look at it
with a little more context.
And we can see here this is katana search
terms using the katana search bar.
This is coming from a file path of
Explorer, which would be File Explorer.
And we can see our search page,
let's go Microsoft dot com,
our start page is the same here.
We can see Internet Explorer Main Windows
search continue down.
We could see recent docs key, you can see,
we have typed URLs and
we can see our email address hit in
the Un Red Milky is where that
email address hit an unread mail.
And you can see a little bit
more about the mail application,
It was Mozilla Thunderbird.
And we can see the user profile
of Ivan here apt out of roaming.
So we get a little more context of
what we're looking at in a little more
information when we use the operators
to see the lines before and after.
And we also have the line numbers,
they are in this red grip,
report the line numbers
that the hits are founded.
Now let's try a recursive search
in the Windows of vet logs and
we're going to use great for this one.
And we're searching great minus R for
recursive search.
And we're searching for the word log in
and researching in the Windows event logs,
a folder called logs.
And that folder is located
within the file system at C.
Windows system, 32 win event logs and
see what we find out here, okay.
It's returning to things for to us these
are binary files so it's not breaking out
the hits, but we do see two Windows event
log specified that have matches in them.
So we would have to go ahead and
look at these files individually.
Now we're going to try looking in
a folder called IP underscore txt.
And we're going to search for
IP addresses.
There are two files in this folder,
let's go ahead and run our search.
We're going to paste anyway, and when we
run the search, we have our great minus R.
IP regular expression and
then the folder was searching,
and it's a directory researching,
recursive lee in IP underscore txt., and
you can see here on the left-hand side.
These two files in here if config
an iptest.txt and it will tell
you which violet found the hidden and
it shows us our IP address hits.